schedule:

    - day: Monday, December 06

    - start: 2021-12-06T09:00
      end: 2021-12-06T11:00
      title: "Plenary Sessions"

    - start: 2021-12-06T11:00
      end: 2021-12-06T11:15
      title: "Voting Block with Parallel Plenary Sessions (could start later)"

    - start: 2021-12-06T11:15
      end: 2021-12-06T12:00
      title: "Plenary Sessions"

    - endday: done


    - day: Tuesday, December 07

    - start: 2021-12-07T09:00
      end: 2021-12-07T11:00
      title: "Plenary Sessions"

    - start: 2021-12-07T11:00
      end: 2021-12-07T11:15
      title: "Voting Block with Parallel Plenary Sessions (could start later)"

    - start: 2021-12-07T11:15
      end: 2021-12-07T12:00
      title: "Plenary Sessions"

    - endday: done


    - day: Wednesday, December 08 - MEETING CANCELLED

    - endday: done


    - day: Thursday, December 09

    - start: 2021-12-09T09:00
      end: 2021-12-09T11:00
      title: "Plenary Sessions"

    - start: 2021-12-09T11:00
      end: 2021-12-09T11:15
      title: "Voting Block with Parallel Plenary Sessions (could start later)"

    - start: 2021-12-09T11:15
      end: 2021-12-09T12:00
      title: "Plenary Sessions"

    - endday: done


procedure-votes:

errata-votes:

    - number: 511
      description: "MPI_Comm_create_from_group and friend - need clarification of errhandler argument"
      withdrawn: 1

    - number: 449
      description: "Fix wrong term 'Cartesian process group' in section 8.5.6"
      withdrawn: 0

no-no-votes:

    - number: 525
      description: "Add new error class MPI_ERR_ERRHANDLER"
      withdrawn: 0

first-votes:

second-votes:

plenaries:
    - type: Welcome
      title: Introductions
      presenter: All
      done: 1

    - type: Update
      title: WG Status
      presenter: All WG chairs or their proxies
      done: 1

    - type: Errata Reading
      title: "Fix wrong term 'Cartesian process group' in section 8.5.6"
      issue_number: 449
      presenter: Christoph
      done: 1

    - type: Errata Reading
      title: "MPI_Comm_create_from_group and friend - need clarification of errhandler argument"
      issue_number: 511
      presenter: Martin S./Dan
      done: 1

    - type: Reading
      title: "Add new error class MPI_ERR_ERRHANDLER"
      issue_number: 525
      presenter: Christoph
      done: 1

    - type: Discussion
      title: "Hybrid & Accelerator WG Update"
      presenter: Jim
      done: 1

    - type: Reading
      title: "Remove/modify text in Section 7.7.1 (Functionality)"
      issue_number: 496
      presenter: Guillaume
      done: 1

    - type: Reading
      title: "Fix Incorrect Usage of Rank/Task/etc. in Contexts Chapter"
      issue_number: 474
      presenter: Guillaume
      done: 1

    - type: Reading
      title: "Change 'operation' to 'operator' for op argument in One-Sided chapter"
      issue_number: 429
      presenter: Joseph
      done: 1

    - type: Reading
      title: "Adjust RMA Chapter to New Terms or vice versa (and remove interims statement)"
      issue_number: 407
      presenter: Joseph
      done: 0

    - type: Discussion
      title: "Feedback on proposed changes to the appearance of the code and examples"
      issue_number:
      presenter: Bill
      done: 1

    - type: Discussion
      title: "Current and potentially future Pythonization infrastructure"
      issue_number: 431
      presenter: Martin R.
      done: 1

    - type: Discussion
      title: "Update on the Issues areound Logical Concurrency"
      issue_number: 117
      presenter: Dan
      done: 1

    - type: Discussion
      title: "Accelerator Bindings (Delayed to Virtual Meeting)"
      issue_number: 4
      link: "https://github.com/mpiwg-hybrid/hybrid-issues/issues/4"
      presenter: Jim
      done: 1

    - type: Discussion
      title: "Introductions into the Continuations Proposal"
      issue_number: 6
      link: "https://github.com/mpiwg-hybrid/hybrid-issues/issues/6"
      presenter: Joseph
      done: 1

    - type: No-No Reading
      title: "Add new error class MPI_ERR_ERRHANDLER"
      issue_number: 525
      presenter: Christoph
      done: 1

    - type: Discussion
      title: "MPI Forum Organization (Virtual Meeting Topics and Future Meeting Dates/Locations)"
      presenter: Martin S
      done: 0


